**Windows 365 Security Baselines**

**Implementation Effort:** Medium\
Deploying security baselines requires IT and security teams to review,
customize, and assign policy profiles via Intune, with periodic updates
and testing.

**User Impact:** Low\
Security baselines are applied silently to Cloud PCs; users are not
required to take action or be notified unless specific settings impact
usability.

**Overview**

Windows 365 Security Baselines are preconfigured sets of security
policies designed to enforce best practices across Cloud PCs. These
baselines cover Windows 10/11, Microsoft Edge, and Microsoft Defender
for Endpoint, and are managed through Microsoft Intune. Each baseline
version (e.g., 24H1) includes default configurations that can be
customized to meet organizational needs. Admins can assign these
baselines to device groups, ensuring consistent security posture across
the Cloud PC fleet.

Security baselines help reduce risk by enforcing settings like
credential protection, firewall rules, and browser hardening. They also
support versioning, allowing organizations to adopt new recommendations
over time. If not deployed, Cloud PCs may remain misconfigured or
exposed to known threats due to inconsistent or outdated security
settings.

This capability supports the Zero Trust principle of **\"Use least
privilege access\"** by enforcing strict, role-appropriate
configurations and reducing the attack surface.

**Reference**

- [Deploy security baselines for Windows
  365](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-365/enterprise/deploy-security-baselines)

- [Windows 365 Cloud PC security baseline settings
  reference](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/intune/intune-service/protect/security-baseline-settings-windows-365)

- [Security baselines
  guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/operating-system-security/device-management/windows-security-configuration-framework/windows-security-baselines)
