# 143: Quality Updates

**Implementation Effort:**  Low
This setup involves targeted actions like assigning update policies in Intune and enabling VBS, which are straightforward for IT admins using existing tools.

**User Impact:** Low
Updates are deployed silently and hotpatching avoids restarts, so users are not required to take action or experience interruptions.

## Overview

Keeping Windows devices current with security updates is essential for maintaining a Zero Trust security posture and reducing exposure to evolving cyber threats. Organizations can use update ring policies in Intune to manage how and when quality updates are delivered. These policies work with your update rings to define deferral periods, active hours, and restart deadlines, giving you control over update timing and user impact while maintaining strong security compliance.

## Expedite Windows quality updates

Intune can expedite the installation of the most recent Windows 10/11 security updates using Quality Update policies, which allow you to quickly deploy critical updates, such as security patches for zero-day vulnerabilities. This feature temporarily overrides any deferral settings to ensure that the update is installed as soon as possible

## Hotpatch updates

Hotpatch is an extension of Windows Update that delivers Monthly B security updates without requiring a restart, helping organizations respond quickly to threats while minimizing user disruption. By reducing reboots, it enables faster compliance and uninterrupted workflows. Hotpatch requires Windows Autopatch, devices enrolled in an Autopatch quality update policy, and Virtualization-Based Security (VBS) enabled to ensure memory integrity and isolation during patching.
* * *
 
### **Video Walkthrough**
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/6yU_-3YOAlE?si=gwajZEPK3wCLTc6i" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Reference

* [Manage Windows software updates in Intune](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/intune/intune-service/protect/windows-update-for-business-configure)
* [Windows Autopatch documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/deployment/windows-autopatch)
* [Expedite Windows quality updates in Microsoft Intune](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/mem/intune/protect/windows-10-expedite-updates)
* [Hotpatch updates](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/deployment/windows-autopatch/manage/windows-autopatch-hotpatch-updates)

