# 094: LoB app Deployment

## Overview
Deploying Line-of-Business (LOB) apps in Microsoft Intune involves managing custom or in-house developed applications that are critical to your organization's operations. Here's a detailed overview:

### Benefits
1. **Custom Solutions**: LOB apps are typically tailored to meet specific business needs, providing customized solutions that off-the-shelf apps might not offer.
2. **Centralized Management**: Intune allows for centralized deployment and management of LOB apps, simplifying the process for IT administrators.
3. **Security and Compliance**: Intune ensures that LOB apps are deployed securely, adhering to organizational policies and compliance requirements.

### Drawbacks
1. **Complex Setup**: Deploying LOB apps can be complex, requiring proper packaging and configuration.
2. **Maintenance Overhead**: Regular updates and maintenance of LOB apps can be resource-intensive.

### Impact on End Users
- **Enhanced Productivity**: Users have access to custom tools designed to improve their workflow and productivity.
- **Learning Curve**: There might be a learning curve associated with new or updated LOB apps, requiring training and support.

### Relation to Zero Trust
Deploying LOB apps in Intune aligns with the Zero Trust security model by:
- **Ensuring Secure Access**: Only authorized users and compliant devices can access LOB apps, reducing the risk of unauthorized access.
- **Continuous Monitoring**: Intune continuously monitors devices and apps for compliance, ensuring that security policies are enforced.
* * *
 
### **Video Walkthrough**
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/UZeBh99DzV0?si=Fjcmex9wI0aGVOBe" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
## Reference

* Understand line-of-business apps for your managed environment. https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/solutions/apps-type-lob?view=o365-worldwide

