# 025: Data protection framework using App protection

## Overview
As more organizations implement mobile device strategies for accessing work or school data, protecting against data leakage becomes paramount. Intune's mobile application management solution for protecting against data leakage is App Protection Policies (APP). APP are rules that ensure an organization's data remains safe or contained in a managed app, regardless of whether the device is enrolled. For more information, see App protection policies overview.

When configuring App Protection Policies, the number of various settings and options enable organizations to tailor the protection to their specific needs. Due to this flexibility, it may not be obvious which permutation of policy settings are required to implement a complete scenario. To help organizations prioritize client endpoint hardening endeavors, Microsoft has introduced a new taxonomy for security configurations in Windows 10, and Intune is leveraging a similar taxonomy for its APP data protection framework for mobile app management.

The APP data protection configuration framework is organized into three distinct configuration scenarios:

Level 1 enterprise basic data protection – Microsoft recommends this configuration as the minimum data protection configuration for an enterprise device.

Level 2 enterprise enhanced data protection – Microsoft recommends this configuration for devices where users access sensitive or confidential information. This configuration is applicable to most mobile users accessing work or school data. Some of the controls may impact user experience.

Level 3 enterprise high data protection – Microsoft recommends this configuration for devices run by an organization with a larger or more sophisticated security team, or for specific users or groups who are at uniquely high risk (users who handle highly sensitive data where unauthorized disclosure causes considerable material loss to the organization). An organization likely to be targeted by well-funded and sophisticated adversaries should aspire to this configuration.


## Reference

* https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/mem/intune/apps/app-protection-framework 

