# 140: Windows Cloud LAPS

## Overview
Windows Local Administrator Password Solution (LAPS) in Microsoft Entra and Intune is a powerful tool for managing local administrator passwords securely. Here's a detailed overview:

## Video Walkthrough
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/r1clSfn--1Y?si=IWi5Fk2ZdUMc3WJP" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; fullscreen; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### Benefits
1. **Enhanced Security**: Windows LAPS ensures that each device has a unique, complex local administrator password, reducing the risk of unauthorized access.
2. **Centralized Management**: Intune provides a centralized platform for managing local admin passwords, simplifying administration.
3. **Automated Password Rotation**: Automatically rotates passwords on a schedule, ensuring they remain secure.
4. **Compliance**: Helps meet regulatory requirements by ensuring secure management of local admin account passwords.
5. **Simple Setup**: Configuration of Windows LAPS itself is easy, requiring very few changes.

### Drawbacks
1. **Migration from Legacy Microsoft LAPS**: Migrating from on-prem Legacy LAPS can require planning and testing: [Get started with Windows LAPS deployment and migration scenarios | Microsoft Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/identity/laps/laps-scenarios-deployment-migration)
2. **Changes to Helpdesk Processes**: To achieve success using the managed LAPS account, it is imperative to understand what changes to Helpdesk access and processes will be required to be updated.

### Impact on End Users
- **Improved Security**: Users benefit from enhanced security without needing to take additional actions.
- **Minimal Disruption**: Properly configured Windows LAPS can be deployed with minimal disruption to users.
- **Recovery Support**: Users have access to recovery options if they forget their local admin password.

### Steps to Deploy Windows LAPS
1. **Enable Windows LAPS**: In the Azure Active Directory (AAD) or Microsoft Entra Admin portal, navigate to Devices > All devices > Device Settings. Toggle the option to enable Microsoft Entra Local Administrator Password Solution (LAPS) to "Yes" and save.
2. **Configure Intune Policies**: In Intune, create a new policy for account protection and configure the LAPS settings, including password complexity and rotation schedule.
3. **Assign Policies**: Assign the LAPS policy to the appropriate groups of devices or users.
4. **Monitor and Adjust**: Continuously monitor the deployment and make adjustments as needed.

### Tying to Zero Trust
Zero Trust is a security model that assumes no implicit trust and continuously verifies every request. Deploying Windows LAPS through Intune aligns with Zero Trust principles by:
- **Ensuring Secure Access**: Windows LAPS enforces unique, complex passwords for local admin accounts, ensuring only authorized access.
- **Continuous Verification**: Regularly updated passwords help maintain secure access, aligning with the continuous verification aspect of Zero Trust.
- **Reducing Attack Surface**: By managing local admin passwords centrally, Windows LAPS reduces the potential attack surface.

## Notes
The intention of Windows LAPS is for helpdesk support scenarios and not end-users. For scenarios requiring end-user elevation, investigate an Endpoint Privilege Management solution, such as [EPM](RMD_166.md).
* * *
 
### **Video Walkthrough**
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/lSJtY1XOJaA?si=jfkaaXvG3t-eeZUx" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Reference

* What is Windows LAPS?: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/identity/laps/laps-overview
* Manage Windows LAPS with Microsoft Intune policies: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/mem/intune/protect/windows-laps-overview
* External Blog: Set up Windows LAPS with Intune: A Step-by-Step Guide - Prajwal Desai. https://www.prajwaldesai.com/set-up-windows-laps-with-intune/
* External Blog: Implement LAPS With Intune: A Comprehensive Guide - CloudInfra. https://cloudinfra.net/implement-laps-with-intune-a-comprehensive-guide/

