Logging and archiving Microsoft Entra logs help detect unauthorized access attempts. Using logs, security teams implement monitoring and detection security controls, proactive threat hunting, incident response, provide evidence for compliance and audits, assess system health, etc. Typically using a Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) system. Logging and archiving Microsoft Entra logs helps detect unauthorized access attempts. Using these logs, enable security teams to implement monitoring and detection security controls, proactively hunt for threats, respond to incidents, provide evidence for compliance and audits, assess system health, and other functions. Typically this archival process is usually managed using a Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) system.

Without archived logs, it's challenging to identify and investigate how an attacker gained initial access. The absence of historical logs means that security teams may miss patterns of failed login attempts, unusual activity, or other indicators of compromised accounts and other risks. This lack of visibility can prevent the timely detection of breaches, allowing attackers to maintain undetected access for extended periods. Without archived logs, it's challenging to identify and investigate how an attacker gained initial access. The absence of historical logs means that security teams might miss patterns of failed sign-in attempts, unusual activity, other indicators of compromise, and other risks. This lack of visibility can prevent the timely detection of breaches, which can allow attackers to maintain undetected access for extended periods.

The Microsoft Entra activity logs and reports can be used to detect unauthorized access attempts or identify when a tenant configuration changed. When logs are archived - or even better - integrated with Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) tools, security teams can implement powerful monitoring and detection security controls, proactive threat hunting, and incident response processes. The logs and monitoring features can be used to assess tenant health and provide evidence for compliance and audits.

If logs aren't regularly archived or sent to a SIEM tool for querying, it's challenging to investigate sign-in issues. The absence of historical logs means that security teams might miss patterns of failed sign-in attempts, unusual activity, other indicators of compromise, and other risks. This lack of visibility can prevent the timely detection of breaches, allowing attackers to maintain undetected access for extended periods.

**Remediation action**

- [How to configure Microsoft Entra diagnostic settings - Microsoft Entra ID](https://learn.microsoft.com/entra/identity/monitoring-health/diagnostic-settings)
- [Integrate Microsoft Entra logs with Azure Monitor logs - Microsoft Entra ID](https://learn.microsoft.com/entra/identity/monitoring-health/azure-monitor-logs)
- [Stream Microsoft Entra logs to an event hub - Microsoft Entra ID](https://learn.microsoft.com/entra/identity/monitoring-health/stream-logs-to-event-hub)
<!--- Results --->
%TestResult%
