# Base SWG: Update Conditional Access policies to leverage Compliant Network controls

**Implementation Effort:** Low 

**User Impact:** Medium 
 
## Overview

Organizations that use Conditional Access along with the Global Secure Access can prevent malicious access to Microsoft apps, third-party SaaS apps, and private line-of-business (LoB) apps using multiple conditions to provide defense-in-depth. These conditions might include strong factor authentication, device compliance, location, and others. Enabling these conditions protects your organization against user identity compromise or token theft. Global Secure Access introduces the concept of a compliant network within Microsoft Entra ID Conditional Access. This compliant network check ensures users connect via the Global Secure Access service for their specific tenant and are compliant with security policies enforced by administrators.

Compliant network enforcement reduces the risk of token theft/replay attacks. Authentication plane enforcement is performed by Microsoft Entra ID at the time of user authentication. If an adversary has stolen a session token and attempts to replay it from a device that is not connected to your organization’s compliant network (for example, requesting an access token with a stolen refresh token), Entra ID will immediately deny the request and further access will be blocked. Data plane enforcement works with services integrated with Global Secure Access and that support Continuous Access Evaluation (CAE) - currently, Microsoft Graph. With apps that support CAE, stolen access tokens that are replayed outside your tenant’s compliant network will be rejected by the application in near-real time. Without CAE, a stolen access token will last up to its full lifetime (default is between 60 and 90 minutes).

This compliant network check is specific to the tenant in which it is configured. For example, if you define a Conditional Access policy requiring compliant network in contoso.com, only users with the Global Secure Access or with the Remote Network configuration are capable of passing this control. A user from fabrikam.com will not be able to pass contoso.com's compliant network policy.

## Reference

- [Universal Conditional Access through Global Secure Access](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/global-secure-access/concept-universal-conditional-access)
- [Enable compliant network check with Conditional Access](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/global-secure-access/how-to-compliant-network)
