# Monitoring: Review remote network health logs

**Implementation Effort:** Low 

**User Impact:** Low

## Overview

Remote networks, such as a branch office, rely on customer premises equipment (CPE) to connect users in those locations to the online resources and services they need. Users expect that CPE to function so they can do their work. To keep everyone connected, you need to ensure the health of the IPSec tunnel and the Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) route advertisement. These long-running tunnel and routing information are the keys to your remote network health. Remote Network Health Logs to monitor and assess the security and performance of your remote network connections. By leveraging these logs, you can:

- Continuously verify the health and status of all remote connections.
- Detect connectivity issues, latency, or misconfigurations that may impact secure access.
- Identify patterns or anomalies that could indicate security risks or policy violations.
- Take proactive steps to remediate issues and maintain strong Zero Trust principles: always verify trust, minimize risk, and ensure only healthy, compliant networks are permitted access.
  
Using Remote Network Health Logs empowers you to enforce Zero Trust by sustaining visibility, validating the integrity of remote connections, and responding quickly to emerging threats or failures.

## Reference

- [Remote network health logs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/global-secure-access/how-to-remote-network-health-logs?)
